---
layout: post
title: "Embedded System Lab - Arduino"
date: 2020-03-26
permalink: /arduino/
---
<h1>{{title}}</h1>
<h2>What?</h2>
<p>
	Arduino is my project for the Winter Term 2020. Arduino is an open-source platform used for building electronics projects. It consists of both a physical programmable circuit board (a.k.a microcontroller) and a piece of software, or IDE (Integrated Development Environment) that runs on computer, used to write and upload computer code to the physical board.
</p>
<p>
	I helped my Computer Science professor to design lab assignments for her Arduino class in Spring semester. The name of the class is CSCI 345: Computers and the Physical World. 
</p>

<h2>Why?</h2>
<p>
	It was my first Winter Term at Oberlin. I chose this project because I wanted to learn something new and cool as well as to get to know my professor better. On top of that, Arduino has many applications in the real world, which can be useful and handy in the future. 
</p>

<h2>How?</h2>
<p>
	The labs entail exploring Arduino software using Arduino coding language, which is similar to C/C++. <h3 style="color:red"><a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1lzRdGzqdM92Z3YtQA6hvH3TD5MDH9i5i?usp=sharing">This link</a></h3><p>offers some videos recorded during selected labs.</p>
</p>
<ul>
	<li>Set up Arduino software to control LEDs (make them blink in patterns, add sounds, change colors, etc.)</li>
	<li>Display input on an LCD; Plot input using pySerial or Processing</li>
	<li>Control different motors and create engine</li>
	<li>Transfer information between the Internet and Arduino. For example, send an email when a movement is detected by Arduino</li>
	<li>Work with API to post data from Arduino to the Internet and vice versa</li>
</ul>

<h2>When and Where?</h2>
<p>The project took place during January 2020 at Oberlin College.</p>

<h2>What Did I Learn?</h2>
<h3>Skill Set</h3>
<p>Arduino coding, pySerial, Processing</p>
<h3>Soft Skills</h3>
<p>Work independently under the supervision of a professor.</p>